---
aliases:
- /2015-12-17-ballot-158/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2015-12-17 20:18:52
tags:
- Code Signing
- Ballot
title: Ballot 158 – Adoption of Code Signing Baseline Requirements
type: post
---

Voting on Ballot 158 (Code Signing BRs) closed on 17 December 2015.  The results are as follows:

In the CA category, 17 CAs voted YES, 1 voted NO and 3 Abstained

In the Browser category, 2 browsers voted YES, 3 browsers voted NO and none Abstained

Therefore the ballot fails.

Detailed results can be seen here:

After a 2 week pre-ballot, the Code Signing Working Group has now prepared the formal ballot below:

Ballot 158: Adopt Code Signing Baseline Requirements

The following motion is proposed by the Code Signing Working Group and is endorsed by Microsoft, Trend Micro and OATI. Further information on the ballot is in the email message below.

**– – – – Motion for Ballot 158 – – – –**

Be it resolved that the CA / Browser Forum adopts the recommendation of the Code Signing Working Group for Version 1.0 of the Baseline Requirements for Code Signing. Once adopted, the effective date will be October 1, 2016.

**– – – – Motion Ends – – – –**

The review period for this ballot shall commence at 2200 UTC on 3 Dec 2015, and will close at 2200 UTC on 10 Dec 2015. Unless the motion is withdrawn during the review period, the voting period will start immediately thereafter and will close at 2200 UTC on 17 Dec 2015. Votes must be cast by posting an on-list reply to this thread.

A vote in favor of the motion must indicate a clear ‘yes’ in the response. A vote against must indicate a clear ‘no’ in the response. A vote to abstain must indicate a clear ‘abstain’ in the response. Unclear responses will not be counted. The latest vote received from any representative of a voting member before the close of the voting period will be counted. Voting members are listed here:

In order for the motion to be adopted, two thirds or more of the votes cast by members in the CA category and greater than 50% of the votes cast by members in the browser category must be in favor. Quorum is currently nine (9) members– at least nine members must participate in the ballot, either by voting in favor, voting against, or abstaining.

Dean Coclin and Jeremy Rowley

Code Signing Working Group co-chairs