---
aliases:
- /2014-08-04-ballot-129-psl-br-11-1-3/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2014-08-04 23:51:05
tags:
- Server Certificates
title: Ballot 129 – PSL in BR 11.1.3 (passed)
type: post
---

Voting on Ballot 129 closed on 4 August 2014.

Voting in Favor were: DigiCert, Disig, GlobalSign, GoDaddy, Symantec, Trend Micro, Trustwave, WoSign, and Mozilla.

None were opposed and none abstained. Quorum was met and Ballot 129 passed resulting in [Baseline_Requirements_V1_1_9][1].

Gerv Markham of Mozilla made the following motion, and Ben Wilson from Digicert and Rick Andrews from Symantec have endorsed it.

**Reason for Ballot**

This ballot simply clarifies how to use the “Public Suffix List” (PSL) in Section 11.1.3 of the Baseline Requirements. The explanation in the footnote to section 11.1.3 of the Baseline Requirements about how to use the PSL is ambiguous because the PSL has two sections–the “ICANN DOMAINS” section and the “PRIVATE DOMAINS” section. Therefore, clarification is needed to explain that it is the ICANN DOMAINS section of the PSL that CAs should use.

**Motion Begins**

1. At the end of the middle sentence in the footnote “†” to section 11.1.3 of the Baseline Requirements,

a. INSERT:

“(PSL), and to retrieve a fresh copy regularly. If using the PSL, a CA SHOULD consult the “ICANN DOMAINS” section only, not the “PRIVATE DOMAINS” section. The PSL is updated regularly to contain new gTLDs delegated by ICANN, which are listed in the “ICANN DOMAINS” section. A CA is not prohibited from issuing a Wildcard Certificate to the Registrant of an entire gTLD, provided that control of the entire namespace is demonstrated in an appropriate way”

b. DELETE:

“If the process for making this determination is standardized by an RFC, then such a procedure SHOULD be preferred.”

The resulting note will read as follows:

†Determination of what is “registry-controlled” versus the registerable portion of a Country Code Top-Level Domain Namespace is not standardized at the time of writing and is not a property of the DNS itself.  Current best practice is to consult a “public suffix list” such as (PSL), and to retrieve a fresh copy regularly. If using the PSL, a CA SHOULD consult the “ICANN DOMAINS” section only, not the “PRIVATE DOMAINS” section. The PSL is updated regularly to contain new gTLDs delegated by ICANN, which are listed in the “ICANN DOMAINS” section. A CA is not prohibited from issuing a Wildcard Certificate to the Registrant of an entire gTLD, provided that control of the entire namespace is demonstrated in an appropriate way.

**Motion Ends**

The review period for this ballot shall commence at 2200 UTC on Monday, 21 July 2014, and will close at 2200 UTC on Monday, 28 July 2014. Unless the motion is withdrawn during the review period, the voting period will start immediately thereafter and will close at 2200 UTC on Monday, 4 August 2014. Votes must be cast by posting an on-list reply to this thread.

A vote in favor of the motion must indicate a clear ‘yes’ in the response. A vote against must indicate a clear ‘no’ in the response. A vote to abstain must indicate a clear ‘abstain’ in the response. Unclear responses will not be counted. The latest vote received from any representative of a voting member before the close of the voting period will be counted. Voting members are listed here:

In order for the motion to be adopted, two thirds or more of the votes cast by members in the CA category and greater than 50% of the votes cast by members in the browser category must be in favor. Quorum is currently seven (7) members– at least seven members must participate in the ballot, either by voting in favor, voting against, or abstaining.

[1]: /uploads/Baseline_Requirements_V1_1_9.pdf