---
title: 2025-02-27 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
author: Corey Bonnell
summary: Final minutes of the CA/B Forum call held on February 27, 2025.
date: 2025-02-27
tags:
  - Forum
  - Minutes
type: post
---

# Attendance
 
Aaron Gable (Let's Encrypt), Aaron Poulsen (Amazon), Antti Backman (Telia Company), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Bineesh Ambali Vadakkekandi (Microsoft), Brittany Randall (GoDaddy), Chad Dandar (Cisco Systems), Chris Clements (Google), Clint Wilson (Apple), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Corey Rasmussen (OATI), Cynethia Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Dean Coclin (DigiCert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Gregory Tomko (GlobalSign), Hogeun Yoo (NAVER Cloud Trust Services), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), Iñigo Barreira (Sectigo), Jaime Hablutzel (OISTE Foundation), Jeff Ward (Aprio), Ji Eun Seong (MOIS (Ministry of Interior and Safety) of the republic of Korea), Jos Purvis (Fastly), Karina Sirota (Microsoft), Kateryna Aleksieieva (Asseco Data Systems SA (Certum)), Kiran Tummala (Microsoft), Lucy Buecking (IdenTrust), Luis Cervantes (SSL.com), Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS), Mahua Chaudhuri (Microsoft), Marco Schambach (IdenTrust), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michael Slaughter (Amazon), Michelle Coon (OATI), Miguel Sanchez (Google), Mrugesh Chandarana (IdenTrust), Nargis Mannan (VikingCloud), Nate Smith (GoDaddy), Nicol So (CommScope), Nome Huang (TrustAsia), Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Puja Sehgal (Microsoft), Rich Smith (DigiCert), Rollin Yu (TrustAsia), Ryan Dickson (Google), Sandy Balzer (SwissSign), Scott Rea (eMudhra), Stephen Davidson (DigiCert), Steven Deitte (GoDaddy), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tathan Thacker (IdenTrust), Thomas Zermeno (SSL.com), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Tsung-Min Kuo (Chunghwa Telecom), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yamian Quintero (Microsoft)

# Minutes

Read Note-well: Note-well was read before starting the Server Certificate Working Group Meeting.

Review Agenda: No changes to agenda.
 
Approval of Minutes: Dean will follow-up with Rebecca on these minutes.

## Server Certificate Working Group update (Dimitris):

-	The last SCWG teleconference was spent discussing SC-081, discussion is ongoing.
-	The last Validation Subcommittee focused on the CAA parameters ballot related to RFC 8657. DNSSEC checking has been removed from the scope of the ballot for consideration separately. 

## Code Signing Certificate Working Group update (Martijn):

-	No meeting last week.
-	One ballot in discussion, that we expect to continue in discussion for a bit longer.
-	We’ll focus the next meeting on the F2F agenda.

## S/MIME Certificate Working Group update (Stephen):

-	Met yesterday, walked through a set of changes to allow use of EU identifiers. Determining whether the group moves forward as-is, or waits for ETSI.
-	Discussion related to CRLs for S/MIME certs, and whether revoked S/MIME certs should be retained on CRLs past their expiry. This discussion is ongoing. 
-	The ACME for S/MIME is an upcoming focus, along with relying on mobile drivers licenses for identity verification.

## NetSec Working Group update (Clint):

-	Met on Tuesday, spent time discussing changes from NS-003 and the restructuring of the NCSSRs. 
-	Meeting again in a few weeks to discuss F2F agenda and continue the discussion re: Version 1.7 to Version 2.0 changes. 

## Definitions and Glossary Working Group update (Tim C.):

-	No update.
-	Tim C. expressed the opportunity for others to join in leading this effort. He’s happy to discuss more offline. 
-	Dean suggested time at F2F could focus on how we can move forward. Tim C. agreed.

## Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update (Ben, on behalf of Jos):

-	Two major points of discussion.
o	Bylaws and whether Forum Subcommittees (like the IPR Subcommittee) can publish minutes and agendas to existing public lists. Both Forum Infrastructure and IPR Subcommittee support a change to the bylaws that make minutes available to members, without requiring them to also maintain a public list. The intent is to make sure the bylaws match practices.
o	Use of AI to create meeting minutes. The Infrastructure Subcommittee found it was quite useful to take meeting transcripts and have AI create a draft of meeting minutes. Perhaps a process should be written to make this a standard practice used by the Forum going forward. 
-	Ben clarified how the above described approach is different from the existing WebEx AI solutions.
-	Aaron G. expressed concern with use of generative AI/LLMs as a core part of the Forum’s workflow. 
-	Trev offered concern that it’s less work for the minute taker, and more work for everyone else - due to concerns with accuracy of AI-generated minutes. 
-	Nicol highlighted accuracy concerns also exist with today’s process. 
-	Dean encouraged those interested in further discussion to join the next Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee Meeting.
-	Wayne offered a counter argument. Minute takers are doing the best they can. The consistency and quality from manually-created minutes are not perfect. The idea was to use tools to promote consistency and quality that otherwise might be lacking. 

## Intellectual Property Rights Subcommittee:

-	Next call is planned for mid-March. 
-	No updates since last time. 
-	Charter suggests this group closes its work by April. Ben may need to revisit this. 
-	Ben will summarize the group's progress at the F2F.

## Bylaws changes:

-	Nothing new.
-	No need for time at the F2F.
 
## Any Other Business

-	The group discussed potential future F2F hosts (Microsoft, HARICA, and SSL.com).

Next call: March 13, 2025

Adjourn: The meeting adjourned.

