---
aliases:
- /2016-02-04-ballot-160/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2016-02-04 17:10:57
tags:
- Ballot
- Server Certificates
title: Ballot 160 – Amend Section 4 of Baseline Requirements
type: post
---

Voting on Ballot 160 closed on 4 February 2016. There were 18 YES votes, 0 NO votes and 0 Abstentions from CAs. There were 3 YES votes, and 0 NO or Abstention votes from Browsers.

Therefore, the ballot passes.

**Ballot 160 – Amend Section 4 of Baseline Requirements**

The Policy Review Working Group has reviewed Section 4 of the Baseline Requirements and, as a result, suggests that certain changes be made. Therefore, the following motion has been proposed by Ben Wilson of DigiCert and endorsed by Tim Hollebeek of Trustwave and Kirk Hall of TrendMicro:

— MOTION BEGINS —

1. In Sections 4.2.3, 4.3.2, 4.4.1, 4.4.2, 4.4.3, 4.5.2, 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.3, 4.6.4, 4.6.5, 4.6.6, 4.6.7., 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3, 4.7.4, 4.7.5, 4.7.6, 4.7.7, 4.8.1, 4.8.2, 4.8.3, 4.8.4, 4.8.5, 4.8.6, 4.8.7, 4.9.4, 4.9.8, 4.10.3, 4.11, and 4.12.1, add “No stipulation.”

1. In Sections 4.9.14, 4.9.15, 4.9.16, and 4.12.2, add “Not applicable.”

1. In Section 4.5.1, add “See Section 9.6.3, provisions 2. and 4.”

1. In Section 4.9.2, add “The Subscriber, RA, or Issuing CA can initiate revocation. Additionally, Subscribers, Relying Parties, Application Software Suppliers, and other third parties may submit Certificate Problem Reports informing the Issuing CA of reasonable cause to revoke the certificate. ”

1. In Section 4.9.6, add “No stipulation. (Note: Following certificate issuance, a certificate may be revoked for reasons stated in Section 4.9.1. Therefore, relying parties should check the revocation status of all certificates that contain a CDP or OCSP pointer.)”

— MOTION ENDS —

The review period for this ballot shall commence at 2300 UTC on 21 January 2016, and will close at 2300 UTC on 28 January 2016. Unless the motion is withdrawn during the review period, the voting period will start immediately thereafter and will close at 2300 UTC on 4 February 2016. Votes must be cast by posting an on-list reply to this thread.

A vote in favor of the motion must indicate a clear ‘yes’ in the response. A vote against must indicate a clear ‘no’ in the response. A vote to abstain must indicate a clear ‘abstain’ in the response. Unclear responses will not be counted. The latest vote received from any representative of a voting member before the close of the voting period will be counted. Voting members are listed here:

In order for the motion to be adopted, two thirds or more of the votes cast by members in the CA category and greater than 50% of the votes cast by members in the browser category must be in favor. Quorum is currently nine (9) members– at least nine members must participate in the ballot, either by voting in favor, voting against, or abstaining.

See [Ballot-160 Redlining of Section 4 of BRs](/uploads/Ballot-160-Redlining-of-Section-4-of-BRs.pdf)