---
aliases:
- /2016-04-04-ballot-166/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2016-04-04 18:47:37
tags:
- Forum
title: Ballot 166 – Clarification of Membership Requirements
type: post
---

Voting on Ballot 166 (Membership Update) has now closed. The results are as follows:

From the CAs, we received 18 YES votes, zero NO votes and zero Abstentions

From the Browsers, we received 3 YES votes, zero NO votes and zero Abstentions.

Therefore the ballot passes.

Full ballot results can be found here:

**Ballot 166: Clarification of Membership Requirements**

The following motion has been proposed by Dean Coclin of Symantec and endorsed by Gerv Markham of Mozilla and Kirk Hall of Trend Micro:

**Background:**

Section 2.1 (a)(1) says that Issuing CAs “actively issue certificates to Web servers…”

Section 2.1(b) of the bylaws lists the items needed in a membership application by CAs.

But that section does not ask the CA applicant to provide a 3rd party website where the CA/B Forum can validate that they are actively issuing certs to web servers.  We do however ask the applicant this question, after they have submitted their application. It would be helpful to have this in the bylaws so we don’t have to go back and ask every time.

— MOTION BEGINS —

In CA/B Forum Bylaws, add under 2.1(b):

(7) The URL of at least one third party website that includes a certificate issued by the Applicant in the certificate chain.

— MOTION ENDS –
The review period for this ballot shall commence at 2200 UTC on 21 March 2016, and will close at 2200 UTC on 28 March 2016. Unless the motion is withdrawn during the review period, the voting period will start immediately thereafter and will close at 2200 UTC on 4 April 2016. Votes must be cast by posting an on-list reply to this thread.

A vote in favor of the motion must indicate a clear ‘yes’ in the response. A vote against must indicate a clear ‘no’ in the response. A vote to abstain must indicate a clear ‘abstain’ in the response. Unclear responses will not be counted. The latest vote received from any representative of a voting member before the close of the voting period will be counted. Voting members are listed here: