---
author: Corey Bonnell
date: 2024-05-16 00:00:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Code Signing
title: 2024-05-16 Minutes of the Code Signing Certificate Working Group
type: post
---


## Attendees

Atsushi INABA - GlobalSign, Ben Dewberry -Keyfactor, Brian Winters - IdenTrust, Brianca Martin - Amazon, Bruce Morton - Entrust, Corey Bonnell-Digicert, Dean Coclin-DigiCert, Dimitris Zacharopoulos - HARICA, Martijn Katerbarg - Sectigo, Mohit Kumar - GlobalSign, Richard Kisley (Guest), Scott Rea - eMudhra

## Minutes

Antitrust statement was read.  
Meeting Minutes of 2nd-May-24 approved.

Following Ballots were discussed. 
* Removing EV Guidelines References: 
Dimitris removed the Organization Identifier requirements from the updates that had objection from the group. There was alignment on using EV Codesigning certificates vs EV Certificates. Updates to be made by Dimitris. Ballot Process can be started if no further comments and looks right.
* CSC - 23:
It was not received publicly so it has not been published. Corey mentioned it is required step. Bruce will send it to Public list so Corey can take from there for publication.
* CSC-24: Time-stamp Requirements update
No further comments from anyone. Voting will be started.

Proposal for PCI-HSM acceptance for CA HSMs evaluation by R.Kisley was discussed

Kisley mentioned that:-
*	PCI has high level assurance requirements
*	FIPS program has long queue so good to have other option
*	PCI Version 4 is proposed as PCI version 3 is going to expire in 2026

So request is to add PCI HSM as an alternative criteria to FIPS. 
Bruce mentioned that need to understand if it will be accepted by Root programs. 
Dimitris mentioned that Certification of standard is also important. 
Richard Kisley to reach out to Microsoft/raise this in F2F. 


F2F Agenda was discussed and following topics identified for discussion:
*	Maximum Certificate Validity period for Codesigning certificates
*	EV Codesigning changes by Microsoft, dependent usecases on EV and future direction 
*	Problem of change in Subject DN for publishers impacting continuity of upgrades and Use of Subject Organization specific EKU 
*	CT Logging
*	Need for Organization Identifier for Codesigning certificates
Dean to share the list ahead to Ian. 

Membership of Encryption Consulting, okay to join as interested party. 
*	No objections raised









