---
title: 2024-12-19 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
author: Martijn Katerbarg
summary: Final minutes of the CA/B Forum call held on December 19, 2024.
date: 2024-12-19
tags:
  - Forum
  - Minutes
type: post
---

## Attendees
Aaron Poulsen (Amazon), Adam Jones (Microsoft), Adriano Santoni (Actalis S.p.A.), Andrea Holland (VikingCloud), Ben Wilson (Mozilla), Brianca Martin (Amazon), Bruce Morton (Entrust), Chris Clements (Google), Dean Coclin (DigiCert), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft), Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST), Hogeun Yoo (NAVER Cloud Trust Services), Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign), IÃ±igo Barreira (Sectigo), Johnny Reading (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Fastly), Kateryna Aleksieieva (Asseco Data Systems SA (Certum)), Lucy Buecking (IdenTrust), Luis Cervantes (SSL.com), Lynn Jeun (Visa), Mahua Chaudhuri (Microsoft), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Mark Nelson (IdenTrust), Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo), Michelle Coon (OATI), Mrugesh Chandarana (IdenTrust), Nargis Mannan (VikingCloud), Nate Smith (GoDaddy), Nome Huang (TrustAsia), Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust), Peter Miskovic (Disig), Rebecca Kelly (SSL.com), Roman Fischer (SwissSign), Sandy Balzer (SwissSign), Scott Rea (eMudhra), Stephen Davidson (DigiCert), Steven Deitte (GoDaddy), Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems), Tathan Thacker (IdenTrust), Tim Callan (Sectigo), Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS), Wayne Thayer (Fastly), Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority), Yamian Quintero (Microsoft)
 
## Approval of Minutes
- The November 7th meeting minutes are approved
 
## Server Certificate Working Group update
- Minutes not yet available.
- New version of the TBRs has been published.
- Almost gone through the backlog of issues
- Several ballots in progress, including reducing validity reduction
- No Validation Subcommittee update
 
## Code Signing Certificate Working Group update
- PQC presentation by Brianca from Amazon
- Short discussion on lifetime reducation
- Bruce (Entrust) preparing a ballot incorporating several SCWG changes into the CSBRs
 
## S/MIME Certificate Working Group update
- New SBR version to be published on Monday incorporating MPIC for S/MIME
- Looking on adding a new ACME for S/MIME DCV method into the SBRs
- Modifying the NTR Registration Scheme to incorporate the EUID as an NTR Identifier
 
## NetSec Working Group update
- The last meeting was not held
 
## Definitions and Glossary Working Group update
- No updates
 
## Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update
- Will be looking at forwarding the questions list email address towards a new questions list as a temporary measure until all Forum documents can be updated to show the new questions email address.
- Had a discussion on voting and using the member tools as voting platform in the future. Bylaws and Charters will need to be updated for this as well.
 
## Intellectual Property Rights Subcommittee
- Had a meeting the past week, where the invited experts proposal and feedback was reviewed. This feedback will be compiled and sent around.
- Looking to adopt the policy through a ballot into the bylaws.
 
## Bylaws Changes
- We have 10 issues to be resolved for the bylaws. We may need to hold a session in a future meeting or with a subgroup to go through all of these.
- This will be presented to the larger group once ready
 
## Any Other Business
- January 2nd meeting cancelled
 
## Next meeting
- January 16th
