---
aliases:
- /2018-08-09-2018-08-09-minutes/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2018-08-09 16:03:44
tags:
- Minutes
title: 2018-08-09 Minutes
type: post
---

**Minutes for CA/Browser Forum Teleconference – 9 August 2018**

Attendees: Arno Fiedler (D-TRUST), Atsushi Inaba (GlobalSign), Ben Wilson (DigiCert), Corey Bonnell (Trustwave),Daymion Reynolds (GoDaddy), Dean Coclin (DigiCert), Devon O’Brien (Google), Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA), Doug Beattie (GlobalSign), Frank Corday (Trustwave), Geoff Keating (Apple), India Donald (FPKI), Joanna Fox (GoDaddy), Jos Purvis (Cisco), Kirk Hall (Entrust), Leo Grove (SSL.com), Li-Chun Chen (Chunghwa Telecom), Mads Henriksveen (BuyPass), Marcelo Silva (Visa), Neil Dunbar (Trustcor), Patrick Tronnier (OATI), Robin Alden (ComodoCA), Ryan Sleevi (Google), Shelley Brewer (DigiCert),Tim Hollebeek (DigiCert), Tim Shirley (Trustwave), Tomasz Nowak (Opera), Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon), Wayne Thayer (Mozilla), Wendy Brown (Federal PKI).

1. Roll Call

1. Read Antitrust Statement

1. Review Agenda. Agenda was approved.

1. Approval of Minutes of teleconference of July 26, 2018. The Minutes as amended were approved, and will be posted to the Public list.

1. Final list of Members, Associate Members, and Interested Parties – CA/Browser Forum. The updated list circulated by Kirk by email on August 6, 2018 was approved and will be posted to the wiki and Forum’s website. Kirk will make no further efforts to contact former Forum members, who can reapply if they are interested in participating.

1. Governance Change Working Group update (WG continued in Forum under Bylaw 5.3.4 until Oct. 3, 2018). Dean said the WG had met earlier in the week, and would propose a ballot to extend the current terms of the Chair and Vice Chair through October 31, 2018 to sync up with the terms of the new officers.

1. Ballot Status – see table at end of Agenda. No discussion.

1. Any Other Business. There was no other business.

1. Next call: August 23, 2018 at 11:00 Eastern Time

1. Adjourn