---
aliases:
- /2017-09-01-2494/
author: Ben Wilson
date: 2017-09-01 15:12:01
tags:
- Server Certificates
title: Ballot 212 – Canonicalise formal name of the Baseline Requirements
type: post
---

Results on Ballot 212: Canonicalise formal name of the Baseline Requirements

The voting period for Ballot 212 has ended, and the ballot has passed. Here are the results.

**Voting by CAs – 19 votes total including abstentions**

19 Yes votes: Actalis, Buypass, Cisco, D-TRUST, DigiCert, Disig, Entrust, GDCA, GlobalSign, GoDaddy, HARICA, Izenpe, QuoVadis, SSL.com, SSC, SwissSign, Symantec, TrustCor, Trustwave

0 No votes:

0 Abstain:

100% of voting CAs voted in favor

**Voting by browsers – 4 votes total including abstentions**

4 Yes votes: Apple, Google, Microsoft, Mozilla

0 No votes:

0 Abstain:

100% of voting browsers voted in favor

Under Bylaw 2.2(g), a ballot result will be considered valid only when more than half of the number of currently active Members has participated. Votes to abstain are counted in determining a quorum. Half of currently active Members as of the start of voting is 9, so quorum was 10 votes – quorum was met.

Bylaw 2.2(f) requires a yes vote by two-thirds of CA votes and 50%-plus-one browser votes for approval. Votes to abstain are not counted for this purpose. This requirement was met for both CAs and browsers.

At least one CA Member and one browser Member must vote in favor of a ballot for the ballot to be adopted. This requirement was met.

**The ballot passes.**

**Ballot 212: Canonicalise formal name of the Baseline Requirements**

Purpose of Ballot: to make the formal name of the Baseline Requirements document clear, as use is not currently consistent.

The following motion has been proposed by Gervase Markham of Mozilla and endorsed by Jeremy Rowley of DigiCert and Ryan Sleevi of Google:

**— MOTION BEGINS —**

The official name of the Baseline Requirements document shall be ‘The Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of Publicly-Trusted Certificates’. Approved abbreviations for official use are “the Baseline Requirements”, and “the BRs”.

Editors and maintainers of CAB Forum documents and websites are empowered to update text under their control at any time to make this so.

**— MOTION ENDS —**

The procedure for approval of this ballot is as follows:

| | | |
| --- | --- | --- |
| |
Start time (22:00 UTC) |
End time (22:00 UTC) | |
Discussion (7 to 14 days) |
18 Aug |
25 Aug | |
Vote for approval (7 days) |
25 Aug |
1 Sep |
| | | |

Votes must be cast by posting an on-list reply to this thread on the Public list. A vote in favor of the motion must indicate a clear ‘yes’ in the response. A vote against must indicate a clear ‘no’ in the response. A vote to abstain must indicate a clear ‘abstain’ in the response. Unclear responses will not be counted. The latest vote received from any representative of a voting member before the close of the voting period will be counted. Voting members are listed here:

In order for the motion to be adopted, two thirds or more of the votes cast by members in the CA category and greater than 50% of the votes cast by members in the browser category must be in favor. Quorum is shown on CA/Browser Forum wiki. Under Bylaw 2.2(g), at least the required quorum number must participate in the ballot for the ballot to be valid, either by voting in favor, voting against, or abstaining.